Move `rustdoc-types` crate to T-Rustdoc ownership. (#3505)
rust-lang/rfcs: text/0000-rustdoc-types-maintainers.md

- Feature Name: `rustdoc_types_maintainers`
- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/0000)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

> The [rustdoc-types](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) crate will go from be officialy maintained by the rustdoc team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [rustdoc-types](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) crate will go from <something> to be officially maintained by the rustdoc team.
```

2. Move overship of `rustdoc-types` on crates.io to the rustdoc team.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

`rustdoc-types` is a republishing of the in-tree [`rustdoc-json-types`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/tree/b8536c1aa1973dd2438841815b1eeec129480e45/src/rustdoc-json-types) crate. `rustdoc-json-types` is a dependency of `librustdoc`, and is the canonical source of truth for the canonical description of the rustdoc-json output format. Changes to the format are made a a PR to `rust-lang/rust`, and will modify `src/rustdoc-json-types`, `src/librustdoc/json` and `tests/rustdoc-json`. None of this will change.

However, the publishing of this to crates.io, so that it can be used by out-of-tree tools that take rustdoc-json as an input
([eg](https://github.com/awslabs/cargo-check-external-types/blob/dc15c5ee7674a495d807481402fee46fdbdbb140/Cargo.toml#L16),
[eg](https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api/blob/19f15ce4146835691d489ec9db3518e021b638e8/public-api/Cargo.toml#L27),

> [eg](https://github.com/obi1kenobi/trustfall-rustdoc-adapter/blob/92cbbf9bc6c9dfaf40bba8adfbc56c0bb7aff12f/Cargo.toml#L15)). This is done with [a scipt](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/577a774c2433beda669271102a201910c4169c0c/update.sh) so that it is as low maintence as possible. This also ensures that all format/documentation changes happen in the rust-lang/rust repo, and go through the normal review process there.

Author: Good Idea

> [eg](https://github.com/obi1kenobi/trustfall-rustdoc-adapter/blob/92cbbf9bc6c9dfaf40bba8adfbc56c0bb7aff12f/Cargo.toml#L15)). This is done with [a scipt](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/577a774c2433beda669271102a201910c4169c0c/update.sh) so that it is as low maintence as possible. This also ensures that all format/documentation changes happen in the rust-lang/rust repo, and go through the normal review process there.

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> This is done with \[a scipt\]...

> [eg](https://github.com/obi1kenobi/trustfall-rustdoc-adapter/blob/92cbbf9bc6c9dfaf40bba8adfbc56c0bb7aff12f/Cargo.toml#L15)). This is done with [a scipt](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/577a774c2433beda669271102a201910c4169c0c/update.sh) so that it is as low maintence as possible. This also ensures that all format/documentation changes happen in the rust-lang/rust repo, and go through the normal review process there.

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> so that it is as low maintence as possible

The update/publishing process will be moved to T-Rustdoc. In the medium term, I (`@aDotInTheVoid`) will still do it, but
- In an offical capacity
- With bus factor for when I stop.

## Actual Mechanics of the move

### Github

Github has a [list of requirements](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/transferring-a-repository) for transfering repositories.

- When you transfer a repository that you own to another personal account, the new owner will receive a confirmation email. The confirmation email includes instructions for accepting the transfer. If the new owner doesn't accept the transfer within one day, the invitation will expire.
   - N/A: Not transfering to 
- To transfer a repository that you own to an organization, you must have permission to create a repository in the target organization.

>    - I (`@aDotInTheVoid`) don't have create-repo perms in the `rust-lang` org. Therefor I'll add a member of T-Infra as an owner to `aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types` (I can't add teams, as it's not in an org). They'll then move it to the repo to the `rust-lang` org. Once moved, T-Infra can become owners.

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> Therefor I'll add a member

- The target account must not have a repository with the same name, or a fork in the same network.
   - OK.
- The original owner of the repository is added as a collaborator on the transferred repository. Other collaborators to the transferred repository remain intact.

>    - OK. After the transfer. T-Rustdoc should be added as a colaborator, and I should be removed so that I only have permissions via my membership in T-Rustdoc. 

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> Therefor I'll add a member

- Single repositories forked from a private upstream network cannot be transferred.
   - OK.

At the end of this we should have a crate in the rust-lang github org with T-Rustdoc as contributors, and T-infra as owners.

### crates.io

> crats.io ownership is managed [via the command line](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/publishing.html#cargo-owner).

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> crats.io ownership is managed

I will run the following commands to move ownership.

```
cargo owner --add github:rust-lang:owners
cargo owner --add rust-lang-owner
cargo owner --remove aDotInTheVoid
```

> The `rust-lang-owner` is neaded because team owners cannot add new owners. 

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> is neaded because

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

> - Adds additional maintenence burden to rustdoc team.

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> Adds additional maintenence burden

> - One-time maintenece burden to infra team to support move.

Reviewer 2: Same typo here too.

- We could publish `rustdoc-json-types` directly from `rust-lang/rust`. However
   - `rust-lang/rust` doesn't currently publish to crates.io.
   - `rustdoc-json-types` doesn't currently bump the version field in cargo.toml
   - It may be desirable to use different types in rustdoc vs users, eg to have a specialized version of `Id` that doesn't allocate
   - `rustdoc-types` is a nicer name, and what people already depend on.

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

- [Rust RFC 3119](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3119-rust-crate-ownership.html) establishes the Rust crate ownership policy. Under it's categories, `rustdoc-types` would be a **Intentional artifact**
- [Some old zulip discussion about why `rustdoc-json-types` was created.](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/266220-t-rustdoc/topic/JSON.20Format/near/223685843) What was said then is that if T-Rustdoc want's to publish a crate, it needs to go through an RFC. This is that RFC.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

None yet

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

> When the rustdoc-json feature is stabilized, we'll should release 1.0.0 to crates.io. How we can evolve the format post stabilization is an unanswered question. It's a blocker for stabilization, but not this RFC

Reviewer 2: Typo:

> we'll should release

- We could bundle `rustdoc-types` through rustup. This is undesirable as it means users can't depend on it in stable rust, and can't depend on multiple versions.
- We could publish `rustdoc-json-types` directly from `rust-lang/rust`. However
   - `rust-lang/rust` doesn't currently publish to crates.io.
   - `rustdoc-json-types` doesn't currently bump the version field in `Cargo.toml`
   - It may be desirable to use different types in rustdoc vs users, eg to have a specialized version of `Id` that doesn't allocate
   - `rustdoc-types` is a nicer name, and what people already depend on.

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

- [Rust RFC 3119](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3119-rust-crate-ownership.html) establishes the Rust crate ownership policy. Under it's categories, `rustdoc-types` would be a **Intentional artifact**
- [Some old zulip discussion about why `rustdoc-json-types` was created.](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/266220-t-rustdoc/topic/JSON.20Format/near/223685843) What was said then is that if T-Rustdoc wants to publish a crate, it needs to go through an RFC. This is that RFC.

> 

Author: `cargo_metadata` should me mentioned here, specificly https://github.com/oli-obk/cargo_metadata/issues/240

[obi1kenobi/cargo-semver-checks]: https://github.com/obi1kenobi/cargo-semver-checks

[RFC 1977]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/1977-public-private-dependencies.html

Currently I ([`@aDotInTheVoid`](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/)) maintain the `rustdoc-types` crate on [my personal github](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/). No-one else has either github or crates.io permissions. This means if I become unable (or more likely disinterested), the crate will not see updates.

Additionally, if an update to `rustdoc-json-types` happens while i'm away from a computer for an extended period of time, their will be a delay in this update being published on crates.io. [This almost happened](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/issues/25), but was avoided due to the bors queue being quiet at the time.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

This involves:

1. Moving the [github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/) repo to the `rust-lang` organization, and make `rust-lang/rustdoc` maintainers/owners.
2. Move overship of `rustdoc-types` on crates.io to the rustdoc team.

> # Reference-level explanation

Reviewer 3: issue: I think we should carefully document what our versioning strategy is.

Author: For the crate, or the `FORMAT_VERSION` constant?

For the crate, the current approach is "Follow semver, and don't release 1.0.0 until stabilization". The post 1.0.0 versioning strategy will be figured out in concert with designing the format for post-stabilization evolution.

How much detail on versioning strategy do you think this RFC needs? From a users POV, their should be no change from this, and new releases will be published in the same fashion as before.

Reviewer 3: The crate. We should both:

 - Document what we plan to do in the near future
 - Make a clear commitment; do we plan to do that for the forseeable future, or do we want flexibility to change how we do it. Are we going to make a release every time it changes? Do we guarantee that we will always pair rustdoc JSON changes with rustdoc-types changes? Or is it acceptable if we change rustdoc JSON in a way that breaks rustdoc-types but not immediately publish a new version?

It's going to be an official Rust artefact, we need to be a bit clearer to our users.

[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

`rustdoc-types` is a republishing of the in-tree [`rustdoc-json-types`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/tree/b8536c1aa1973dd2438841815b1eeec129480e45/src/rustdoc-json-types) crate. `rustdoc-json-types` is a dependency of `librustdoc`, and is the canonical source of truth for the rustdoc-json output format. Changes to the format are made a a PR to `rust-lang/rust`, and will modify `src/rustdoc-json-types`, `src/librustdoc/json` and `tests/rustdoc-json`. None of this will change.

Republishing `rustdoc-json-types` as `rustdoc-types` is done with [a script](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/577a774c2433beda669271102a201910c4169c0c/update.sh) so that it is as low maintenance as possible. This also ensures that all format/documentation changes happen in the rust-lang/rust repo, and go through the normal review process there.

> `rustdoc-types` is a republishing of the in-tree [`rustdoc-json-types`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/tree/b8536c1aa1973dd2438841815b1eeec129480e45/src/rustdoc-json-types) crate. `rustdoc-json-types` is a dependency of `librustdoc`, and is the canonical source of truth for the canonical description of the rustdoc-json output format. Changes to the format are made a a PR to `rust-lang/rust`, and will modify `src/rustdoc-json-types`, `src/librustdoc/json` and `tests/rustdoc-json`. None of this will change.

Reviewer 4: This is duplicated two paragraphs above, but without the text "the canonical description of".

```suggestion
```

The update/publishing process will be moved to T-Rustdoc. In the medium term, I (`@aDotInTheVoid`) will still do it, but
- In an offical capacity
- With bus factor for when I stop.

## Actual Mechanics of the move

### Github

Github has a [list of requirements](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/transferring-a-repository) for transfering repositories.

- When you transfer a repository that you own to another personal account, the new owner will receive a confirmation email. The confirmation email includes instructions for accepting the transfer. If the new owner doesn't accept the transfer within one day, the invitation will expire.

>    - N/A: Not transfering to 

Reviewer 4: I initially misread this as "not transferring to (anywhere)". This might help for clarity:

```suggestion
   - N/A: Not transfering to another personal account
```

   - OK.
- The original owner of the repository is added as a collaborator on the transferred repository. Other collaborators to the transferred repository remain intact.
   - OK. After the transfer. T-Rustdoc should be added as a colaborator, and I should be removed so that I only have permissions via my membership in T-Rustdoc. 
- Single repositories forked from a private upstream network cannot be transferred.
   - OK.

At the end of this we should have a crate in the rust-lang github org with T-Rustdoc as contributors, and T-infra as owners.

### crates.io

crates.io ownership is managed [via the command line](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/publishing.html#cargo-owner).

I will run the following commands to move ownership.

```
cargo owner --add github:rust-lang:owners
cargo owner --add rust-lang-owner
cargo owner --remove aDotInTheVoid
```

The `rust-lang-owner` is needed because team owners cannot add new owners. 

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

- Adds additional maintenance burden to rustdoc team.
- One-time maintenance burden to infra team to support move.

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

> - We could keep `rustdoc-types` as a personal project. This preserves the status quo (and is what will happen if this RFC (or something similar) isn't addopted). This is undesirable because

Reviewer 4: Typo?

```suggestion
- We could keep `rustdoc-types` as a personal project. This preserves the status quo (and is what will happen if this RFC (or something similar) isn't adopted). This is undesirable because
```

>       - Bus factor: If I am unable or unwilling to maintain `rustdoc-types`, we cause a load of unnessessary churn when it becomes out of sync with 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      - Bus factor: If I am unable or unwilling to maintain `rustdoc-types`, we cause a load of unnessessary churn when it becomes out of sync with `rustdoc-json-types`
```

- We could bundle `rustdoc-types` through rustup. This is undesirable as it means users can't depend on it in stable rust, and can't depend on multiple versions.
- We could publish `rustdoc-json-types` directly from `rust-lang/rust`. However
   - `rust-lang/rust` doesn't currently publish to crates.io.

>    - `rustdoc-json-types` doesn't currently bump the version field in cargo.toml

Reviewer 4: Might be a typo?

```suggestion
   - `rustdoc-json-types` doesn't currently bump the version field in Cargo.toml
```

   - It may be desirable to use different types in rustdoc vs users, eg to have a specialized version of `Id` that doesn't allocate
   - `rustdoc-types` is a nicer name, and what people already depend on.

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

- [Rust RFC 3119](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3119-rust-crate-ownership.html) establishes the Rust crate ownership policy. Under it's categories, `rustdoc-types` would be a **Intentional artifact**

> - [Some old zulip discussion about why `rustdoc-json-types` was created.](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/266220-t-rustdoc/topic/JSON.20Format/near/223685843) What was said then is that if T-Rustdoc want's to publish a crate, it needs to go through an RFC. This is that RFC.

Reviewer 4: Typo?

```suggestion
- [Some old zulip discussion about why `rustdoc-json-types` was created.](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/266220-t-rustdoc/topic/JSON.20Format/near/223685843) What was said then is that if T-Rustdoc wants to publish a crate, it needs to go through an RFC. This is that RFC.
```

- Feature Name: `rustdoc_types_maintainers`
- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/0000)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

The [rustdoc-types](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) crate will go from being individually maintained to being officially maintained by the rustdoc team.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> [`rustdoc-types`](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) is a crate published on crates.io. It is used by users of the unstable [rustdoc JSON](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/76578) backend to provided a type representing the output of `rustdoc --output-format json`.  It's published on crates.io to be used by out-of-tree tools that take rustdoc-json as an input. Eg:.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[`rustdoc-types`](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) is a crate published on crates.io. It is used by users of the unstable [rustdoc JSON](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/76578) backend to provided a type representing the output of `rustdoc --output-format json`.  It's published on crates.io to be used by out-of-tree tools that take rustdoc-json as an input. E.g:
```

| Name | Purpose |
|--|--|
| [awslabs/cargo-check-external-types] | Home-rolled version of [RFC 1977] "private dependencies". Checks if any types from the private dependency are used in a crate's public API. |
| [Enselic/cargo-public-api] | Compares the public API of two crates. Used to check for semver violations. |
| [obi1kenobi/trustfall-rustdoc-adapter] | Higher-level database-ish API for querying Rust API's. Used by [obi1kenobi/cargo-semver-checks] |

[awslabs/cargo-check-external-types]: https://github.com/awslabs/cargo-check-external-types/blob/dc15c5ee7674a495d807481402fee46fdbdbb140/Cargo.toml#L16

[Enselic/cargo-public-api]: https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api/blob/19f15ce4146835691d489ec9db3518e021b638e8/public-api/Cargo.toml#L27

[obi1kenobi/trustfall-rustdoc-adapter]: https://github.com/obi1kenobi/trustfall-rustdoc-adapter/blob/92cbbf9bc6c9dfaf40bba8adfbc56c0bb7aff12f/Cargo.toml#L15

[obi1kenobi/cargo-semver-checks]: https://github.com/obi1kenobi/cargo-semver-checks

[RFC 1977]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/1977-public-private-dependencies.html

> Currently I ([`@aDotInTheVoid`](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/)) maintain the `rustdoc-types` crate on [my personal github](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/). No-one else has either github or crates.io permissions. This means if I become unable (or more likely disinterested), the crate will not see updates.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Currently I ([`@aDotInTheVoid`](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/)) maintain the `rustdoc-types` crate on [my personal GitHub](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/). No-one else has either GitHub or crates.io permissions. This means if I become unable (or more likely disinterested), the crate will not see updates.
```

> Additionally, if an update to `rustdoc-json-types` happens while I'm away from a computer for an extended period of time, their will be a delay in this update being published on crates.io. This happened with format_version 29, which was merged on [April 8th](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/commit/537aab7a2e7fe9cdf50b5ff18485e0793cd8db62),

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Additionally, if an update to `rustdoc-json-types` happens while I'm away from a computer for an extended period of time, there will be a delay in this update being published on crates.io. This happened with format_version 29, which was merged on [April 8th](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/commit/537aab7a2e7fe9cdf50b5ff18485e0793cd8db62),
```

but was only published to crates.io on
[April 19th](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/commit/ad92b911488dd42681e3dc7e496f777f556a94f6), due to personal reasons.
[This almost happened previously](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/issues/25), but was avoided due to the bors queue being quiet at the time.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

This involves:

1. Moving the [github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/) repo to the `rust-lang` organization, and make `rust-lang/rustdoc` maintainers/owners.
2. Move ownership of `rustdoc-types` on crates.io to the rustdoc team.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

> `rustdoc-types` is a republishing of the in-tree [`rustdoc-json-types`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/tree/b8536c1aa1973dd2438841815b1eeec129480e45/src/rustdoc-json-types) crate. `rustdoc-json-types` is a dependency of `librustdoc`, and is the canonical source of truth for the rustdoc-json output format. Changes to the format are made a a PR to `rust-lang/rust`, and will modify `src/rustdoc-json-types`, `src/librustdoc/json` and `tests/rustdoc-json`. None of this will change.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`rustdoc-types` is a republishing of the in-tree [`rustdoc-json-types`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/tree/b8536c1aa1973dd2438841815b1eeec129480e45/src/rustdoc-json-types) crate. `rustdoc-json-types` is a dependency of `librustdoc`, and is the canonical source of truth for the rustdoc-json output format. Changes to the format are made as a PR to `rust-lang/rust`, and will modify `src/rustdoc-json-types`, `src/librustdoc/json` and `tests/rustdoc-json`. None of this will change.
```

Republishing `rustdoc-json-types` as `rustdoc-types` is done with [a script](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/17cbe9f8f07de954261dbb9536c394381770de7b/update.sh) so that it is as low maintenance as possible. This also ensures that all format/documentation changes happen in the rust-lang/rust repo, and go through the normal review process there.

> The update/publishing process will be moved to T-Rustdoc. In the medium term, I (`@aDotInTheVoid`) will still do it, but

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The update/publishing process will be moved to T-rustdoc. In the medium term, I (`@aDotInTheVoid`) will still do it, but
```

- In an official capacity
- With bus factor for when I stop.

> We (T-Rustdoc) will continue to publish new version of the `rustdoc-types` crate

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We (T-rustdoc) will continue to publish a new version of the `rustdoc-types` crate
```

every time the upstream implementation changes, and these will be versioned with

> normal semver. Changes to rustdoc-json in `rust-lang/rust` will not be accepted

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
normal SemVer. Changes to rustdoc-json in `rust-lang/rust` will not be accepted
```

if they would make it not possible to publish `rustdoc-types`.

## Actual Mechanics of the move

> ### Github
> 
> Github has a [list of requirements](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/transferring-a-repository) for transferring repositories. T-Infra will handle the permissions of moving the repository into the rust-lang github organization.
> 
> At the end of this we should have a crate in the rust-lang github org with T-Rustdoc as contributors, and T-infra as owners.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### GitHub

GitHub has a [list of requirements](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/transferring-a-repository) for transferring repositories. T-infra will handle the permissions of moving the repository into the rust-lang GitHub organization.

At the end of this we should have a crate in the rust-lang GitHub org with T-rustdoc as contributors, and T-infra as owners.
```

> At the end of this we should have a crate in the rust-lang GitHub org with T-rustdoc as contributors, and T-infra as owners.

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure what this is trying to say here. "crate" is in crates.io, not GitHub typically. I also don't see why "T-infra as owners" means -- but it seems pretty surprising for T-infra to be an owner. Do we mean the rust-lang-owner account on crates.io?

The other sections don't seem to elaborate on that.

I at least am not comfortable with infra being an owner for this crate (it feels very much out of our general scope as a team)

Author: > I'm not sure what this is trying to say here. "crate" is in crates.io, not GitHub typically.

Gah sorry, this is my bad writing. I mean the [`aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types`](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/) repo.

> I at least am not comfortable with infra being an owner for this crate or accompanying repository: it feels very much out of our general scope as a team, and very much "just" a rustdoc concern.

Agreed. I meant this in terms of GitHub permissions, not who'se maintaining the crate/repo. If the repo admin permissions should instead go to rust-lang-owner (instead of the infra team or even the rustdoc team) I'm happy to do that.

Reviewer 6: Maybe I'm confused, but aren't we moving that repo into the rust-lang org? If so, then permissions are granted via the team repo and should only consist of teams that need access (in this case, presumably rustdoc).

Infra has access if needed through the org admins, but that is true for all repos in the org so generally doesn't need specific enumeration.

Reviewer 6: In any case, I'm happy with the intent now that I understand it :)

Author: > Maybe I'm confused, but aren't we moving that repo into the rust-lang org?

Yes

> If so, then permissions are granted via the team repo and should only consist of teams that need access.

Ah. That makes things even simpler.

      - Bus factor: If I am unable or unwilling to maintain `rustdoc-types`, we cause a load of unnecessary churn when it becomes out of sync with the in-tree `rustdoc-json-types`
- We could bundle `rustdoc-types` through rustup. This is undesirable as it means users can't depend on it in stable rust, and can't depend on multiple versions.
- We could publish `rustdoc-json-types` directly from `rust-lang/rust`. However
   - `rust-lang/rust` doesn't currently publish to crates.io.
   - `rustdoc-json-types` doesn't currently bump the version field in `Cargo.toml`
   - It may be desirable to one day use different types for rustdoc serialization vs users deserialization

     Reasons for this:
     - It could enable performance optimizations by avoiding allocations into strings
     - It could help with stabilization:
       - Allows making structs/enums `#[non_exhaustive]`
       - Allows potentially supporting multiple format versions.
   - `rustdoc-types` is a nicer name, and what people already depend on.

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

> - [Rust RFC 3119](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3119-rust-crate-ownership.html) establishes the Rust crate ownership policy. Under it's categories, `rustdoc-types` would be a **Intentional artifact**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Rust RFC 3119](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3119-rust-crate-ownership.html) establishes the Rust crate ownership policy. Under its categories, `rustdoc-types` would be am **intentional artifact**
```

- Feature Name: `rustdoc_types_maintainers`
- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/0000)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

The [rustdoc-types](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) crate will go from being individually maintained to being officially maintained by the rustdoc team.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> [`rustdoc-types`](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) is a crate published on crates.io. It is used by users of the unstable [rustdoc JSON](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/76578) backend to provided a type representing the output of `rustdoc --output-format json`.  It's published on crates.io to be used by out-of-tree tools that take rustdoc-json as an input. E.g:

Reviewer 7: nit:

```suggestion
[`rustdoc-types`](https://crates.io/crates/rustdoc-types) is a crate published on crates.io. It is used by users of the unstable [rustdoc JSON](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/76578) backend to provide a type representing the output of `rustdoc --output-format json`.  It's published on crates.io to be used by out-of-tree tools that take rustdoc-json as an input. E.g:
```

Republishing `rustdoc-json-types` as `rustdoc-types` is done with [a script](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/17cbe9f8f07de954261dbb9536c394381770de7b/update.sh) so that it is as low maintenance as possible. This also ensures that all format/documentation changes happen in the rust-lang/rust repo, and go through the normal review process there.

The update/publishing process will be moved to T-rustdoc. In the medium term, I (`@aDotInTheVoid`) will still do it, but
- In an official capacity
- With bus factor for when I stop.

We (T-rustdoc) will continue to publish a new version of the `rustdoc-types` crate
every time the upstream implementation changes, and these will be versioned with
normal SemVer. Changes to rustdoc-json in `rust-lang/rust` will not be accepted

> if they would make it not possible to publish `rustdoc-types`.

Reviewer 7: I'm a little unclear about how this could ever happen. Do you mind giving an example, and/or clarifying the wording to be more precise?

Author: Stuff that depends on rust-lang/rust's "weird" build environment. In paticular:

1. Access to `rustc_private` crates. We can't use types like `DefId` or `Symbol` here (at least on the user facing side).
2. Using nightly language features/knowing the compiler version(s) being used to build

I'll add these to the RFC.

### crates.io

crates.io ownership is managed [via the command line](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/publishing.html#cargo-owner).

I will run the following commands to move ownership.

```
cargo owner --add github:rust-lang:rustdoc
cargo owner --add rust-lang-owner
cargo owner --remove aDotInTheVoid
```

The `rust-lang-owner` is needed because team owners cannot add new owners. 

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

- Adds additional maintenance burden to rustdoc team.
- One-time maintenance burden to infra team to support move.

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

- We could keep `rustdoc-types` as a personal project. This preserves the status quo (and is what will happen if this RFC (or something similar) isn't adopted). This is undesirable because
      - Bus factor: If I am unable or unwilling to maintain `rustdoc-types`, we cause a load of unnecessary churn when it becomes out of sync with the in-tree `rustdoc-json-types`
- We could bundle `rustdoc-types` through rustup. This is undesirable as it means users can't depend on it in stable rust, and can't depend on multiple versions.

> - We could publish `rustdoc-json-types` directly from `rust-lang/rust`. However

Reviewer 7: Hmm, I am a little concerned about having a separate repo because it would mean every PR that increases FORMAT_VERSION would also necessitate a separate PR to a different repo. Is there a downside to publishing from a folder in rust-lang/rust instead (or maybe even a git subtree)? See also my comments below about merging it with rustdoc-json-types, though my main concern is requiring multiple PRs.

Author: > though my main concern is requiring multiple PRs.

FWIW, this is how it's always been done, but that's defiantly not sufficient justification that it's the best way.

> Is there a downside to publishing from a folder in rust-lang/rust instead (or maybe even a git subtree)?

1. Can't tag the git repo with creates.io version
    - I'm not sure how compelling this is
2. No way to diff view diff between releases
    - https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/compare/v0.29.1...v0.30.0 is nice to see.
    - Know way (AFAIKT) to get something like this in rl/r (without github showing changes from the rest of the repo)
3. Having the crate be a small repo makes it easier to depend on it via cargo's git feature (rather than having cargo clone rl/r). https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/pull/14
4. Requires re-engineering release procedures, and it's unclear how that would work in rust-lang/rust
     - Are we now going to cd into a local clone of rust-lang/rust and `cargo publish`? This is involved to
     - Alternatively, is rust-lang/rust CI going to autopublish? This is a whole can of worms, and it'd be much easier to set up auto-publishing on it's own repo. 
     - Changelog generation get's tricky if it needs to be done in the PR that implements it.
         - Can't know the date it will be published to crates.io before merging, due to unpredictable bors delay
             - But maybe we don't need this in the changelog, it's not super intuitive how this is ties to _crates.io_ (not rustup dates)
5. I kinda like that the publish happens later, and gets another pass on it before going out to users:
    - A couple of big sweeping compiler changes have made breaking changes to rustdoc-json. (rust-lang/rust#125958, rust-lang/rust#120131). Knowing that as long as FORMAT_VERSION was bumped we'd be fine, (as everything else could be hashed out separately later) made this less stressful for me, and reduced workload on T-Compiler
    - But maybe this is just me wanting to keep control of things, and want to hoard responsibility withing T-Rustdoc. It feels kinda unhealthy somehow.

Author: Whats your concern with multiple PR's? Given that there's already a publish step, I don't think it cuts down on work (unless we autopublish from rust-lang/rust PR's, which I'm not fully comfortable with)

We could land this now (primarily for bus-factor reasons), and then move change things separately if it becomes a problem.

Reviewer 7: > Whats your concern with multiple PR's? Given that there's already a publish step, I don't think it cuts down on work (unless we autopublish from rust-lang/rust PR's, which I'm not fully comfortable with)

Fair enough since all that's needed to update the repo is to run a script.

> We could land this now (primarily for bus-factor reasons), and then move change things separately if it becomes a problem.

Yeah, I guess that makes sense since it wouldn't even need a whole RFC for a small administrative change like that.

Reviewer 7: > I kinda like that the publish happens later, and gets another pass on it before going out to users:

Ah, the impression I got from the RFC text was you wanted publishing to happen almost as soon as the format version changed. I agree that there's benefit to reviewing the changes before publishing a new crate version.

   - `rust-lang/rust` doesn't currently publish to crates.io.
   - `rustdoc-json-types` doesn't currently bump the version field in `Cargo.toml`

>    - It may be desirable to one day use different types for rustdoc serialization vs users deserialization

Reviewer 7: FWIW we could use `cfg`s for this (like `feature = "unstable_internal_rustdoc"` for the internal rustdoc version). I don't think we'd want to maintain two completely separate versions of the API anyway, since it would be confusing to keep in sync.

Author: Yeah, we should probably do that either way, to replace the [increasing pile of regex](https://github.com/aDotInTheVoid/rustdoc-types/blob/aea8d42347f0a94c7702329147c32098181221bd/update.sh#L12-L14) we currently use.

     Reasons for this:
     - It could enable performance optimizations by avoiding allocations into strings
     - It could help with stabilization:
       - Allows making structs/enums `#[non_exhaustive]`
       - Allows potentially supporting multiple format versions.

>    - `rustdoc-types` is a nicer name, and what people already depend on.

Reviewer 7: This seems irrelevant since we could just rename `rustdoc-json-types` to `rustdoc-types`.

Author: That's fair.

> - Feature Name: `rustdoc_types_maintainers`
> - Start Date: 2023-10-3

Reviewer 7: nits:

```suggestion
- Start Date: 2023-10-03
```

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

> - [Rust RFC 3119](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3119-rust-crate-ownership.html) establishes the Rust crate ownership policy. Under its categories, `rustdoc-types` would be am **intentional artifact**

Reviewer 5: :heart: oops ^^'
